The history of architecture is not linear, just like any other history. It is rather ambiguous, with events, styles and movements happening at the same time, overlapping each other and being influenced by each other. In the 20th century, these statements are particularly true. During the decades of 1960's until 2000's, the architectural ground was dominated by a lot of uncertainty, violence and change. With the last [[Modernity. Modernisation. Modernism.|CIAM]] (Congress International d'Architecture Moderne) in 1959, everything changes, as modernism and [[The Functionalist City|functionalism]] were strongly critiqued. In 1961, an event that would shake the entire Europe takes place: the construction of the Berlin Wall and its consequences of a geo-political reconfiguration and the urban trauma that it creates. In 1968, a lot of revolutions and protests take place, against the domination of the Soviet Union, because of the Vietnam War that ends in 1975, after the last American helicopter leaves Saigon. In 1989, the Berlin Walls is torn down. In 2001 9/11 takes place. All these events leave their mark strongly on architecture, illustrating an evident ciclicity of the historical moments and events inside the city, portraying aggresivity upon architecture. 

Resources:
Charles Jencks Map 
[https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/proxy/XMI8_4w1OP8rceySVutpfLzqrVxQMhpoPD1rS-LPQE3Eq7YWzDLMdsoWaVfJLDrHLAcD-TVhrFY_yZ6-daggwQjBZ4wmjLJG1Gx8Ht3j6aBGKWkYgliLotp42-k=s0-d](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/proxy/XMI8_4w1OP8rceySVutpfLzqrVxQMhpoPD1rS-LPQE3Eq7YWzDLMdsoWaVfJLDrHLAcD-TVhrFY_yZ6-daggwQjBZ4wmjLJG1Gx8Ht3j6aBGKWkYgliLotp42-k=s0-d)

Vietnam War End [https://socialistincanada.ca/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/Vietnam-end-of-war-19752.jpg](https://socialistincanada.ca/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/Vietnam-end-of-war-19752.jpg)

