---
---

Ebenezer Howard was an English urbanist who was part of the [[The culturalist ideological model|culturalist ideological model]]. The Garden City was a [[Utopian visions of towns|visionary project]] that was proposed by him in 1902. He saw the city as a symbol of love and freedom given by God, believing that the society and the nature had to be 'married', giving birth to a whole new civilization. This city would be in fact a cluster of smaller entities well inter-connected through a railway system, surrounded by a rich and vast countryside. The advantages of The Garden City were mostly related to the ease in which the citizens could have access to all the needed facilities, especially to nature. As well as that, Howard proposed this to be decentralized, therefore such experiments could have developed without the intervention of public administration. He wanted to create the social city, which, he hoped, would prove to be superior to the centralized [[Socialism and the emphasis on the collective|socialism]] of the utopians. The houses from the garden-cities were isolated one-family residences, had small densities, with [[The essence of an architectural object lies in its repeatability|repeatable]] types with the possibility of individualization. They had gardens, thus a very strong relationship with nature maintained also through the produce and through the delimitations the green belt was creating. These models were the ancestors of the sattelite-cities.

Resource: _Garden Cities of To-morrow_ by Ebenezer Howard, 1902